## 2019-December Public Board Meeting

**Present**: Hilmar Lapp, Peter Cock, Heather Wiencko, Chris Fields, Yo Yehudi, Nomi Harris, Bastian Greshake-Tzovaras

**Absent**: Malvika Sharan

*Agenda*: [OBF/org#2](https://github.com/OBF/org/issues/2)

*Minutes*:  Hilmar calls meeting called to order at 16:04 UTC.

### **Old business**

1. Approval ([#68](https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/pull/68)) of [meeting minutes for July 2019 Public Meeting](https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/blob/799a5e601ec2d7d78fe39265d3e83182d169afcd/minutes/2019-July.md) at BOSC 2019.
    1. Hilmar moves to approve, Chris (and Yo) second. Approved by unanimous consent.

### **New business**

## Board elections

The terms of 5 Board members expire. All of them stand for re-election to the Board, though with some changes of officers:

*   Hilmar Lapp: stepping down as President of the Board, running for At-Large seat.
*   Heather Wiencko: running for re-election, as Treasurer.
*   Peter Cock: running for re-election, as President of the Board.
*   Chris Fields: running for re-election, as Secretary.
*   Nomi Harris: running for re-election, as At-Large Board member.

Candidate statements:

*   Peter: Likes direction that OBF is heading.  Would like to add explicit travel support for Bio* developers for conferences/hackathons.
*   Hilmar: Greatly enjoyed time as president, one of the most rewarding things I’ve done.  Since elected President in 2011 have seen significant improvements and very happy with progress and long-term sustainability.  Travel fellowship program started since then, and will soon have an affiliate project policy in place.  Great to see new people come to flagship events, and know this will continue w/o me.
*   Heather: Changing up how we’re reporting finances.  Very happy to take on the role of treasurer as this proceeds forward.
*   Nomi, Chris - not much more to add to what Hilmar and Heather covered beyond that it’s been an incredibly positive experience contributing to OBF, and they want to continue doing so

**Election Results:** <https://vote.heliosvoting.org/helios/e/obf-dec-2019> (all elected, no votes against)

## [Affiliated Project Status policy](https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/pull/44). 

The public RfC period closed with no additional change requests or comments. The draft is ready for a vote to approve, adopt, and ratify, both for the Board, and for the OBF membership.

*   Peter: A question re: GSoC addition as a ‘grandfather project’.  This is in relation to the addition over the last 24 hrs by Michael Heuer.  
    *   The change is actually fixing a broken link, and references to GSoC are not in relation to being a separate project (Peter’s misunderstanding was clarified). 
*   No other objections or comments

**Voting results: For: 7, Against: 0:** <https://vote.heliosvoting.org/helios/e/obf-affiliate-policy-board>

Now can release ballot to membership for overall approval.   Election will close noon New Year’s Eve.

*   Maybe extend to end of first full week in January (Jan 10)? 
    *   Hilmar motions to approve, Yo and Chris second.  Approved by unanimous consent.
    *   Approval from the membership needs quorum (10%).  We have approximately 270 members so need ~27 for quorum; can look at rolls to get more accurate count of members. 
*   Hilmar - will recreate ballot for full OBF membership, try to release to go out by today

## OBF-wide Code of Conduct policy: Status report

*   Feedback is present on Github: [OBF/obf-docs#67](https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/issues/67)
*   Hilmar - expresses gratitude on behalf of entire Board to Bastian, Yo, and Peter for working on this

## Financial reporting

*   Peter: update on current balances
    *   ISCB escrow: Potentially $2000 overdrawn, but not sure what has been billed and what hasn’t.  Come 2020 we need to bring up to at least zero and ideally $1000 to be in good standing with ISCB.  
    *   SPI: $84,498 - even w/ travel fellowships, sitting well over $80k even with travel fellowships.  In terms of commitments some is committed to fellowships but still very healthy. 
*   How much is earmarked for fellowship from NESCent?  
    *   Link to the original announcement: <https://www.open-bio.org/2016/03/01/obf-travel-fellowship-program/>
    *   Additional announcement including the NESCent donation: <https://www.open-bio.org/2016/04/18/phylosoc-supports-obf-travel-fellowships/>
    *   Originally, commitment mentioned was for 3 yrs; the NESCent donation added 3 more years.  $5k per yr, total of $30k.  Now approaching end of 4th year.  Idea was to keep this going, which seems very much possible w/ balance.  Need to try keeping this going forward.  
*   _Any reporting requirements to NESCent_ (or in general)?  
    *   Peter - suggest a general public announcement/report.  Maybe start a report in April 2020 (after four years of the scheme).  
    *   With NESCent being first major donor, maybe others would pick this up. At the moment this has not happened but we (OBF Board) haven't aggressively pursued this.  
*   ISCB escrow may potentially have been overdrawn as a result of current travel fellowship disbursements? We will reach out to ISCB to obtain clarity, and to request advice on how best to rectify this. 
*   **_Change of fiscal year period_**
*   Hilmar - no good reason to deviate from the calendar year for reporting.
    *   Should we switch from the original November start of the fiscal year to using a regular calendar year for the fiscal calendar?
    *   General consensus is to do so
*   Hilmar moves to change so the reporting coincides for easier reporting
    *   **All second, unanimous consent**. Effective immediately, our financial year now coincides with the calendar year, thereby extending the current financial year by 1 month. 

Hilmar: Call to adjourn meeting 11:57 EST  15:57 UTC.  


<!-- Docs to Markdown version 1.0β17 -->
