**Present:** Peter Cock, Chris Fields, Heather Wiencko, Nomi Harris, Bastian Greshake-Tzovaras, Hilmar Lapp
**Apologies:** Malvika Sharan (board member), Hilyatuz Zahroh (board candidate)

**Also attending:** Caleb Kibet (board candidate), Yo Yehudi, Pablo Riesgo Ferreiro

*Agenda:* Link Needed

*Minutes:* Meeting called to order by Peter Cock at 17:02 UTC

## Old Business

* Approve minutes from the previous Public Board Meeting: https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/pull/87 
	* Peter proposes approving minutes, Chris seconds.  Motion carried by unanimous consent.
	* Minutes are now in the repository

## Board elections

Term expirations and Elections to the Board (electronic ballot)

* Hilyatuz Zahroh and Caleb Kibet, running for Board member at-large
	* Candidate videos from Hilya and Caleb made available for the Board and public
	* Hilya was unable to join due to time zone differences
* Board member Bastian Greshake Tzovaras’ term expires this year and he would like to stand for another term as member-at-large.
* [Vote is finalized via Helios](https://vote.heliosvoting.org/helios/e/obf-board-2021) 
	* Re-elect Bastian - 5 in favor, 1 abstain
	* Hilya - 6 in favor
	* Caleb - 6 in favor
	* One Board membet 
* Onboarding:
    * Peter: Need to add Hilya and Caleb to Board resources 
    * Chris will coordinate this

## Motions

* Board would like to recognize and acknowledge Yo Yehudi on her past work as a Board member, on the Google Summer of Code, BOSC organization, CoC, affiliate project membership, and initiating the OBF news letter
	* Hilmar Lapp initiated motion, Peter seconded, with unanimous consent from the Board

## Announcement of voting among OBF membership:

Proposed wording for two items that membership will vote on

First:

> *Community Support Sponsorship*
>
> The OBF is proposing a Community Support Sponsorship grant programme, giving funds to grassroots communities in return for our logo appearing on their event webpages and materials, acknowledging our support. Please use https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/issues/86 for specific comments. 
> * https://www.open-bio.org/2021/05/11/obf-community-support-sponsorship/
> * https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/issues/86 
> Do you support the board implementing this scheme? (Yes/No/Abstain)

Second:

> *OBF Code of Conduct*
>
>The OBF would like to adopt a code of conduct (COC) for its activities including meetings and member projects. See pull request https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/pull/78 for the proposal. 
> Do you support adopting this COC? (Yes/No/Abstain)

* Peter - end of month deadline for both (check notes and recording)
* Peter - Motion that the votes on the above motions is binding.  
    * Hilmar seconded with no objections; motion carried with unanimous consent

## Adjournment

* Peter: motion to close the public board meeting; Hilmar seconded.  No objections, motion carried with unanimous consent.  Meeting adjourned at 17:30 UTC 
