**Present**: Nomi, Peter, Chris, Caleb, Bastian, Hilmar, Heather (delayed), Hilya (delayed)

**Also attending**: Iddo Friedberg (Board candidate), Bill Long, Erik Whiting, Kevin Arce

**Agenda**: Please see the [Blog Post](https://www.open-bio.org/2022/09/29/obf-public-board-meeting-2022-10-21/)

# Minutes
- Meeting was held by Zoom
- Meeting called to order by Peter Cock at 15:04 UTC

## Old business
Approve minutes from previous Public Board Meeting
- September 2021: https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/pull/105 (reverts premature merging)
- Nomi and Hilmar seconded motion to approve. Approved by unanimous consent. Merged.

## Board elections
- Chris Fields wishes to step down as Secretary to Member-at-large, and Nomi Harris is standing for election to this role
  - Nomi presented a candidate statement 
  - The role is in the process of being retitled as Vice President. The duties would be the same as Secretary, with the addition of “Deputise for the President, taking on their role when the President is unavailable.”
- Iddo Friedberg is running for member-at-large (statement of interest)
  - Iddo gave a nice overview of his qualifications for this position
  - Hilmar had a comment re: faculty commitments and that it’s good to see someone who is considered more senior faculty to be nominated for the Board
- Voting
  - Members of the current Board voted via (Helios)[https://vote.heliosvoting.org/] electronic ballot
  - Tally: https://vote.heliosvoting.org/helios/e/obf2022
  - Tally for Nomi Harris: 7 votes for, 0 against, 1 abstain
  - Iddo: 8 votes for, 0 against, 0 

## Discussion: bylaw changes
- We periodically review our bylaws, but changes are (and should be) infrequent
- Changes to bylaws can be approved by ⅔ majority of the Board
- We would like to make a few minor changes to avoid gendered language, including subsuming the Secretary role (with historical gendered associations) into a Deputy or Vice President role: 
https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/pull/102 
- Hilmar suggested deferring vote on these changes until next public board meeting (to bundle any other changes and avoid having frequent changes to bylaws).
  - Seconded by Heather

## Adjournment
Peter: motion to close the public board meeting; Hilmar seconded. No objections, motion carried with unanimous consent. Meeting adjourned at 15:35 UTC.

**Note that this PR should be approved and merged at the next public Board meeting.**
